----------------------------------------------
REVIEW NO. 1

Originality:              Weak Reject
Significance of topic:    Neutral
Technical quality:        Strong Reject
Relevance to SSCI 2020:   Neutral
Presentation:             Reject
Overall rating:           Strong Reject

Reviewer's expertise on the topic: High
Suggested form of presentation:    Any
Best Paper Award nomination:       No

Comments to the authors:
    This paper seeks to investigate elements of Darwinian evolutionary theory as
    it pertains to Braitenberg vehicles. This is done by recreating Valentino
    Braitenberg's thought experiment ("Selection, the Impersonal Engineering")
    whereby a population of roaming vehicles with varying sensory-motor
    connections travel across a table reacting to other vehicles and other
    sensory stimuli. The authors adapted a previously implemented simulation to
    account for the added evolutionary mechanisms. Natural Selection is thereby
    naturally present within the simulation such that 'stronger' individuals are
    those who do not fall off the table and thus are viable candidates for the
    'reproductive process' (a random copy of one of the vehicles on the table
    with mutated sensory values). Through experimentation with a variable number
    of light sources and table sizes, the authors found that: (1) The results of
    their experiments were heavily reliant on the environment settings (table
    size, the number of light sources and the location of said lights) and (2)
    the results of the experiment are also dependant on the genetic makeup of
    the vehicles. Specifically, light averse vehicles always performed poorly
    while some light attracted vehicles persisted for several generations. The
    paper, by the authors' own admission is exploratory and several future
    extensions are proposed.
   
    Overall, the paper feels incomplete. This is prominently evident in two
    regards. First, the technical quality of the paper is severely lacking. The
    authors describe taking a qualitative approach to analysis. Although strange
    for an experiment where there is a plethora of interesting numerical data
    points that could be investigated, qualitative analysis alone is not
    entirely problematic. However, this has not stopped the authors from saying
    their observed results are statistically significant while failing to
    mention if and how they determined this. Furthermore, the conditions under
    which the experiments were run are also questionable. The initial conditions
    of each simulation run are deterministic, that is to say the authors hand-
    picked the initial values of each of the vehicles and their starting
    positions. Hand picking initial vehicle properties is not problematic, in
    fact, it is actually an interesting perspective given that the authors
    specifically chose vehicles with varying behaviours (the four Braintenberg
    behaviours and the hybrids that have unique behavioural traits) however, it
    is a bit disingenuous to make overarching comments about general vehicle
    behaviour when the initial locations of these vehicles does not change.
    There is no understanding of how the vehicles behave in general. Random
    initialization of vehicle position seems like a more appropriate approach to
    understanding vehicle behaviour in general.
   
    The second issue pertains to the general scope of the paper. Evolving robots
    to achieve specific tasks (in this case survival) is not new and it is
    certainly not new for Braitenberg vehicles either with the authors noting
    that their work has much in common with a lot of Ralf Salomon's work. It is
    on this note that the exploratory nature and small scope of their paper
    seems unwarranted. There is already evidence that evolutionary techniques
    can be used to evolve Braitenberg vehicles. Furthermore, only the sensor
    parameters evolve. This is a bit disappointing given that Ralf Salomon's
    work did the same thing. This paper may have benefited from implementing
    some of its future work prospects or evolving the connection types as well
    as introducing additional sensors.
   
    There are some further criticisms I have with the paper. Figure 8. should
    match the colour of the line graph to the colour of the vehicle. It is
    strange to see that the blue vehicle, represented by an orange line, is the
    dominant species for that given simulation run. 'specie's' should be changed
    to 'species' in Section C. Dependent variables. The source code for the
    original model is present but the reworked code is noticeably absent.
   
    Additionally, the authors mention altering the GUI of the original work
    which they reference as Figure 2. The authors also state that "Initially a
    batch of experiments were conducted but due to the issues with the source
    code, a new set of experimental runs were needed. Also, the graphics had to
    be disabled for smooth running of the simulations. This however did not
    affect any of the logical components involved regarding vehicle's
    interactions with the environment". It is unclear what 'graphics' entails
    but if it means the entire user interface, I do not see how they would have
    been able to perform "qualitative analysis" through "observation". Figures
    4-7 also show a completely different rendered scene to the reworked GUI in
    Figure 2. The reasons for this are not entirely clear.
   
    Given what has been discussed above, I cannot recommend that this paper be
    accepted to SSCI-2020.

----------------------------------------------
REVIEW NO. 2

Originality:              Reject
Significance of topic:    Weak Reject
Technical quality:        Weak Reject
Relevance to SSCI 2020:   Weak Reject
Presentation:             Weak Reject
Overall rating:           Reject

Reviewer's expertise on the topic: Medium
Suggested form of presentation:    Poster
Best Paper Award nomination:       No

Comments to the authors:
    This paper reports on a development of an evolutionary simulation environment in
    which Braitenberg's vehicles can evolve in a two-dimensional space. However, I
    do not find any significance of the proposed model because there are many
    existing frameworks that allow us to conduct similar experiments. In addition,
    the purpose of conducting experiments with this framework is not clearly shown,
    and thus it is also not clear whether and how the preliminary results are of
    importance.

----------------------------------------------
REVIEW NO. 3

Originality:              Neutral
Significance of topic:    Weak Accept
Technical quality:        Weak Reject
Relevance to SSCI 2020:   Accept
Presentation:             Weak Reject
Overall rating:           Neutral

Reviewer's expertise on the topic: Medium
Suggested form of presentation:    Any
Best Paper Award nomination:       No

Comments to the authors:
    This paper investigates one of Braitenberg's experiments, namely experiment 6.
   
    While the overall idea and investigation is of interest for the community, the
    paper has some major problems:
    - the research questions, the description of setup, the presentation of results,
    the analysis, are particularly verbose and repetitive. This type of language is
    more suitable for a student project report or master thesis, rather than for a
    scientific paper. Please rewrite the paper in a format more suitable for a
    scientific conference.
    - the experimental results are described qualitatively but there is no rigorous
    analysis nor numerical results are given. Some screenshots of the experiments are
    presented where the position of the robots is barely visible. Such images are of
    very little usage. The authors should provide numerical results and analysis, and
    provide links to videos of some example runs
    - in addition, the evolutionary results are provided for a single execution of one
    of the experiments (figure 8).
    - the work is very preliminary, and therefore the results at this stage have very
    limited scope. Since the experimental setup is also rather simple, the overall
    contribution of this work is rather limited/incomplete.
    - the topic is interesting and relevant for the community, so I encourage the
    authors to improve the quality of the paper and include more complete experiments
    and rigorous analysis before resubmission (in this conference if time allows,
    otherwise elsewhere).
   
    I suggest to reject this paper unless the authors include major improvements to
    increase the quality of the work.
